# ST 558 Blog Post 2

# Assignment 
Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) is often the first step of dealing with data.  For this assignment, background material was read and used to answer a series of proposed questions.

# Background Material
The following articles were used as a reference for this assignment:  

https://shopify.engineering/conducting-exploratory-data-analysis  
https://www.ibm.com/topics/exploratory-data-analysis  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis  
https://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/eda/section1/eda11.htm  

# Questions to be Addressed  
 Write a strategy for an EDA.  
 What is the overall goal of doing an EDA?  
 What methods do you think are important?  
 What things do you try to look for?  

## Strategy
The first step is to evaluate the size of the dataset, both samples and rows.  Depending on the size of the dataset, it might be useful to perform some of the more computationally expensive steps 
(like correlation matrices) on a subset of the data.  

Then start looking at the elements: for the rows, determine the unique identifier or set of identifiers.  For the columns, figure out how many rows are missing data. 
For each column (variable), determine if the variable is continuous, discrete, or categorical.  

For continuous and discrete variables, get a feel for the data using something like `summary`.   For categorical variables, determine how many categories and how relatively common they are (`table`).  

A reasonable next step is begin looking at the data graphically including the use of probability mass functions  (for discrete variables) and probability density functions (for continuous features).

After examining individual variables, pairs or groups of variables can be examined to determine correlations.  This can be done graphically or computationally.  

It is also important to look for outliers; box plots can be used for this.  

## Goals
Identify missing values and plan how to deal with them  
Describe the nature of the rows and columns  
Use graphing tools to understand distribution  
Identify relationships between variables  
Identify outliers  

## Methods/Tools  
Contingency tables  
Summary tables  
Graphs of single variables including PDF and PMF  
Graphs of multiple variables to look for relationships between variables.  
Correlation calculations   
Box plots  

## What things do you try to look for?  
Missing data  
Description and distribution of variables  
Outliers  
Correlated variables  
