# References
The following three articles were used as references to answer the assignment subject questions for this assignment.

* https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/data-scientist-vs-statistician 
* Data Science vs. Data Analytics vs. Machine Learning - Expert Talk 
* https://scientistcafe.com/ids/comparison-between-statistician-and-data-scientist.html 

# What do you think being a data scientist is about?  
Data scientists work at the 3-way intersection of math/statistics with computer skills and with subject matter expertise. They extract data from lots of sources, extract information, and use it to come to insights and make predictions that support business decisions. 

# What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?  
Computer skills should include computer skills like Python, SAS,  and R; SQL coding, and machine learning. A knowledge of math and statistics is also required.  The third element is subject matter expertise which could come from any of a diverse range of fields; engineering, economics, and chemistry  are all examples.

# What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians? 

## Differences:
Data scientists use a more exploratory approach while statisticians use a more structured hypothesis-driven approach.  Data scientists typically use a wider range of tools on more complex data sets while statisticians focus on more traditional techniques.

## Similarities:
Both jobs utilize technical skills like mathematical concepts, statistical analysis techniques, programming, machine learning and data visualization and soft skills like problem-solving, communication, and attention to detail.

# How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?
Given that I would be making a late career pivot from analytical chemistry, I see myself as being more of a statistician or data analyst than a data scientist. 
